## What is Archetypal Astrology?
"Archetypal Astrology... is based on an observed correspondence between the **planets in the solar system** and specific *themes*, *qualities*, and *impulses* associated with a set of *universal principals* and *thematic categories* known as planetary archetypes". Each of the planetary bodies, as well as the Sun and the Moon, is associated with a distinct archetypal principle. Thus, the planet Mars, for example, is related to a complex array of themes and qualities associated with the **warrior** archetype and, more generally, to the **principle** of *assertion*, *action*, and *aggressive force*; whereas Venus, understood in its simplest terms, is related to the principle of *eros*, *romantic love*, *beauty*, and *pleasure*. Rather like ancient mythic conceptions of the gods, and as in the Platonic conception of archetypal Forms, the archetypal principles associated with the planets are recognized to be not only *psychological*, but also *cosmological* in essence, exerting a dynamic ordering influence on both the interior and exterior dimensions of reality" --Keiron Le Grice, "The Birth of a New Discipline"

## What Archetypal Astrology Means to Me
The way that this form of astrology plays out manifests as an ability to see patterns between stories in literature and real life events. The ability to correspond aspects of character, environment and other such themes (lighting, color, etc.) with the *know* archetypes of the planets allows one to see the ways in which their lives correspond to the **planetary conditions** imposed upon them at that time.

For example, someone with Mars in Scorpio in their Birth Chart might have certain *masculine, assertive, decision-based* qualities of their life become augmented by the *watery, deep feeling, and rather intense* qualities of Scorpio.

### The Uranus Archetype
The archetypal principle of *freedom*, *awakening,* and *revolution*, Uranus manifests in experiences of **sudden** change -- at once *liberating* and *disturbing*, *jolting* and *electrifying*. It is that principle that pushes us to go our *own way* in life, to experiment and *deviate* from the norm, to challenge the status quo and birth the new. It is the *trickster*-like principle that upsets our plans and intentions, revealing the **limitations of our ego**. It inspires us to become free and to live **authentically** and **creatively**, manifesting our unique genius of our own individual life.